Hopefully, this was a pretty straightforward calculation,
but I still want to go over the solution so I can introduce some terms that might be new.
First, let's just go through the steps.
The problem is to calculate the average velocity between 2:00 and 3:00.
Well, average velocity is just distance traveled divided by time elapsed,
or in more mathematical terms,
distance traveled is given by delta X or change in position,
and time elapsed is given by delta T or change in time.
This triangular character is the upper case,
Greek letter delta, and it usually means change.
When you see something like delta next to an X,
you should not think of that as delta times X.
Instead, you should just think of it as one variable called delta X.
And the way you calculate delta X is like this,
final position minus initial position,
likewise, for change in time.
And in this example, that would be 80 minus 30 divided by 3 minus 2 or 50 over 1,
which is just 50 miles an hour.
And this should all make sense.
If I want to know my average speed between 2:00 and 3:00,
I need to know how far I moved in that time,
delta X, and I need to know how much time actually elapsed,
delta T. Now, there are a few points I'd like to make about this calculation.
First, I want to highlight that what we calculated here was the average velocity,
and this is not what you measure when you look at your speedometer.
We'll explore this more in a bit.
Next, I just want to introduce this term, displacement.
I'll be using this term interchangeably with distance traveled or delta X.